[Music]
I've run welcome back to sound of us in
another sewing tutorial today I'll be
sharing with you how to make your own
fabric reusable pantiliners
and your very own pattern to do so if
you'd like a pattern really made that
you can simply print end so with head
along to my Etsy listing linked below
which also includes the full written in
step by step photo instructions to
create your own pattern you will need an
existing disposable liner of your liking
something you find comfortable and easy
to use two pieces of paper a pencil or
pian a measuring tape or a roller with
inch measurements a DAC marker and
scissors suitable for cutting at paper
onto the sewing you'll need fabric
scissors sewing pins pinking shears
which are optional and iron in ironing
surface cotton in bobbin thread a sewing
machine a roller and a fabric marker so
that's a marker that will wash off and
your items first wash we're going to be
using pre-washed flannel it's so make
sure you do pre wash it before we get
started the more these go through the
wash the softer and more comfortable
they become until we're so take an
existing disposable panty liner that you
feel comfortable wearing and stick this
to one of your pieces of paper and trace
around it using a pencil often the front
end is slightly wider in shape so don't
forget to mark which means this is on
your pattern around the entire outer
edge of the line you've just drawn makes
small marks a quarter inch out from your
traced line and now connect the dots
do the same making small marks a quarter
of an inch inside of your original a
traced line and again connect the dots
next take a dark marker and draw over
your inner and outer line leaving your
original traced line as these darker
shapes will become your pattern pieces
take your second piece of paper and
trace over both shapes each on a
separate side of the page
this way you have both pattern pieces
available if you want to make more
liners at a later date cut your pattern
pieces using scissors are suitable for
paper and in case your tracing or
cutting wasn't as accurate as it could
be fold each pattern piece in half and
trim away any excess so you have an
evenly shaped pattern piece next is on
to cutting your fabric now that you know
what size your pattern pieces are you
can cut small blocks of fabric big
enough to pin these onto and cut around
taking three of your smaller fabric
blocks at a time pen your smallest
pattern piece the interior piece on to
the center of these and trim around the
outside edge using your pinking shears
and repeat for your larger exterior
pieces per liner you will need one front
piece or a large piece one back piece
another large piece in two small
interior pieces so regardless of the
colors you have chosen to work whether
you should now have seven large front
pieces seven large back pieces and 14
interior pieces finally it is slightly
fluffier on one side so take note of
what size this is if you're using a
patient Flinn elite like one of miners
this takes the thought away for you take
one large front piece in one large back
piece place one atop the other good
sides facing together so your fluffy
sides facing in so around the outside
edge of this joy using a quarter inch
seam allowance and remember leave a
small gap along one of the straighter
areas of the liner to turn the right way
out
[Music]
once someone using the small get that
you lift open turn the space the right
way apps old end the quarter-inch same
in their gap and iron flat
take to interior pieces and lay one atop
the other
nescience facing together as fun these
faces will stick together by aesthetics
own opening or sewing as needed holding
these two pieces together carefully tuck
them inside the opening and your
exterior pieces
be sure to wiggle them around as needed
so they're sitting completely flat
within the middle space then fold one of
your seams over the top of them to hold
them in place and keep everything tidy
so around the outside edge as close to
the edge as possible being sure to start
if the opening enclosed the Shatt is you
sew
once complaint takes something flat like
a roller and gently risks us along the
central line of your liner to make an
indent along this indent mark a five
centimeter line and length through the
center using your fabric pin and we've
been going to sew along this line
alternatively you could sew another line
of shape design around the center but I
felt it was better to use as little
stitching as possible to avoid any
possible irritation as the interior
pieces cling by static to one another
and the exterior pieces they don't move
during the wash and I found this central
line to be enough on its own the next
step is to of course repeat six more
times to create your seat of this event
these are just what they say they are
liners so they're designed to be used
with whatever you would normally use a
disposable penny liner for if you're
wondering how to go about washing your
liners if you've been using them just as
a regular panting liner on an everyday
basis throwing them in the washer with
your next regular laundry load should be
fine for mild staining such as backup
for minstrel cats a cold rinse at the
time of removing and then a regular cold
wash will be fine in for stubborn stains
a cold soak as you soak any other
stained article of clothing followed by
a cold wash as I mentioned before the
more you wash your line is softer and
more comfortable though Burkham in there
should last you many months or years but
they'll certainly save you some money
visit for today's tutorial I hope you
found this one helpful you know see you
next video